The Project Gutenberg EBook of To Your Kitchen From Mine, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: To Your Kitchen From Mine

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: October 14, 2020 [EBook #63457]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO YOUR KITCHEN FROM MINE ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                      _to your kitchen from mine_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




YOU ARE WISE ...

to choose a Modern GAS range because it will give you the best cooking
results possible while adding new beauty and convenience to your
kitchen. It is designed for long life and the easy care that is so
necessary in today’s living.

The tips on range use and care can keep your range cooking perfectly and
looking its best for years to come. This booklet is a collection of some
of our most popular recipes. Each one has been carefully tested in our
kitchen—we hope they’ll be favorites in your kitchen, too.

Call your GAS Company when necessary to check the temperature and to
make any range adjustments. There is no charge for this service.

Please call me if I can help you. It is always a pleasure to talk with
you about your GAS appliances.

                                                          {Betty Newton}
                                                          Home Economist
                                                        YOUR GAS COMPANY




                                CONTENTS


  CARE AND CLEANING
  {decorative drawing}
      Cook Top                                                         7
      Oven                                                             7
      Broiler                                                          8
      Accessories                                                      8
      Cleaning Chart                                                   9
  TOP OF RANGE
  {decorative drawing}
      Top Burners                                                     10
      A Thought or Two About a Pot or Two                             11
      A Guide for Using the “Burner-With-A-Brain”                     13
      Recipes for “Burner-With-A-Brain”                               17
      Griddle                                                         20
  OVEN
  {decorative drawing}
      Blue Flame Oven Tips                                            22
      Use of Aluminum Foil                                            22
      Meat Probe                                                      23
      Meat and Poultry Roasting Guide                                 24
      Recipes for Oven                                                26
      Low-Temperature Oven Control                                    28
      Keep-Warm Temperatures For Oven-Cooked Foods                    30
      Keep-Warm Temperatures For Top-Burner-Cooked Foods              31
      To Thaw Frozen Foods                                            31
      Programmed Cooking                                              32
      Programmed Oven Meals                                           34
      Secrets of Better Baking                                        38
  BROILER
  {decorative drawing}
      General Broiling Tips                                           40
      Infrared Broiling Guide                                         41
      Reheating Food in the Infrared Broiler                          42
      Conventional Broiling Guide For Other Foods                     42
      Broiler Recipes                                                 43
  ROTISSERIE
  {decorative drawing}
      Rotisserie Tips                                                 45
      Conventional Burner Rotisserie Guide                            46
      Infrared Burner Rotisserie Guide                                47
  KITCHEN TALK
  {decorative drawing}
      Cooking Terms and Methods                                       48
      Measuring the Right Way                                         49
      Common Can and Jar Sizes                                        50
      Substituting Ingredients                                        51




                 CARE AND CLEANING{decorative drawing}


You will find that your Gas Range is as easy to care for as it is to
use. The following suggestions will help keep it looking—and
cooking—like new. Remember, good care means longer wear and maximum good
service from any household appliance.

                        AN OUNCE OF PREVENTION:

1. Use correct flame size. A flame which is too high will cause
spattering and spillovers. Also, avoid overfilling utensils.

2. Before putting utensils into the oven or on a surface burner, be sure
outside of pan is thoroughly clean.

3. Time cooking operations properly, and use _CORRECT TEMPERATURES_ for
roasting, baking and thermostatic top burner cooking. This will not only
give you better cooking results, but also eliminate the possibility of
spillovers and hard-to-clean pans.

4. A little care regularly keeps a range like new and is much easier
than waiting until stains are cooked on and a major cleaning job is
necessary. All surfaces can safely be washed with detergent and hot
water. To retain the original appearance, RINSE and wipe surfaces dry
after washing.

5. To keep the fine porcelain enamel and polished metal finishes free of
scratches, avoid the use of gritty, harsh cleansers and abrasives which
in time take away the shiny new finish.

6. If acid foods such as fruit juices, vinegar, coffee, tea or milk are
spilled on the range, wipe them off immediately to guard against
permanent discoloration of the finish.

7. Never place extremely hot utensils on the porcelain finished areas.

                           THE POUND OF CURE:

1. If there is a spillover when the range is warm, wipe off with a dry
cloth or paper towel. After the range is cool, finish cleaning with warm
water and a mild soap, or wash with a solution of 3 tablespoons baking
soda dissolved in 1 quart of warm water. Rinse in clear warm water and
dry with soft cloth.

2. Never scrape surfaces with a sharp object such as a knife or razor
blade. In most cases, ordinary stains can be removed from the range with
baking soda and a damp cloth. If the stain proves to be stubborn, use a
mild cleanser such as Bon-Ami, Bab-O, or similar cleansers.

3. In most cases, a damp cloth will wipe the chrome surface clean. Use
any one of the many good chrome cleaners if the stains prove to be
stubborn.

4. All removable parts (except aluminum) will clean more easily if
soaked in ammonia and hot water (4 tablespoons to 2 quarts) for a few
hours.

5. If food spills over in the oven, sprinkle with salt to stop smoke and
odor. Clean as soon as finished baking. Failure to do so may result in a
permanently pitted surface.


                                COOK TOP

BURNERS

Burners can be wiped off without removing them from the range. However,
they are removable for an occasional thorough washing in a solution of
detergent water. Remove stubborn spots with a damp cloth and baking
soda. They may be placed in an inverted position in a warm oven to be
dried. It is not necessary to boil burners. Be sure to fit burners
securely back into place.

                              BURNER PORTS

To clean top burner ports, use a pipe cleaner which has been dipped in
ammonia or a wire, such as a straightened out paper clip rather than a
toothpick which could break off and further clog the ports.

                      THERMOSTATIC SENSING DEVICE

Cooking is carefree and accurate if the sensing device of the
thermostatic top burner is kept clean. Simply wipe with a damp cloth or
remove stubborn spots with SOAPLESS, fine steel wool. Generally the
sensing devices do not lift out, however, there are exceptions. Refer to
your range manufacturer’s manual for specific instructions.

                    BURNER BOWLS, GRIDS, DRIP TRAYS

Burner bowls, grids and drip trays can be removed for washing at the
sink. Wash with mild detergent and hot water. If especially soiled, soak
in a solution of hot ammonia water. Remove stubborn spots with a damp
cloth and baking soda.

                             BURNER CONTROL

Burner control knobs are removable. Be sure control is in OFF position
before removing knob. If knobs do not remove easily, slide a dish towel
or cloth under the edge of the knob; encircle the knob and pull. Wash
with mild detergent and hot water.


                                  OVEN

OVEN INTERIOR

The oven interior and all removable parts clean much easier if a small
dish of undiluted household ammonia is allowed to stand in it for
several hours or overnight prior to washing. In most cases, cleaning can
be completed with hot soapy water. Baking soda or a mild cleanser can be
used on stubborn spots and stains. Soap filled steel wool pads may be
used if well moistened and used gently.

Teflon-lined oven: Refer to range manufacturer’s instruction booklet.

                              OVEN WINDOWS

Oven windows are not removable in most ranges. Wash in place with mild
detergent and water or a solution of baking soda and water (3
tablespoons to 1 cup water).

                               OVEN DOORS

Oven doors are removable on some ranges for easy cleaning. Also, once
removed, access to the oven interior is easy. Refer to your range
manufacturer’s manual regarding this feature.

                              OVEN BOTTOM

The oven bottom and oven racks are easily removed for cleaning at the
sink in mild detergent and water. If necessary, clean with fine steel
wool pads, rinse well and wipe dry. Be sure to replace in correct
position for even heat distribution.

                               MEAT PROBE

A meat probe should not be immersed in water when cleaned. Wipe with a
damp cloth.

A meat probe is a delicate instrument which should not be abused. When
disconnecting the probe after cooking, grasp the plug on one end and the
solid part of the probe on the other end. DO NOT PULL ON THE CABLE AT
ANY TIME.

Also, the meat probe should not be stored in the oven or other parts of
the range. Since the probe could become defective if it is exposed to
350 degrees or over, it should be stored at room temperature.


                                BROILER

Broiler pan cleaning can be minimized by removing the broiler pan BEFORE
preheating broiler compartment. Cold food placed on a hot broiler pan
will stick before it is placed in the broiler. After food is cooked,
remove it AND the broiler pan from broiler compartment. Drippings will
bake on the broiler pan if left in a hot broiler compartment. As soon as
food has been removed from the broiler pan pour off grease. Sprinkle pan
and insert with soap powder or liquid detergent and cover with a hot
damp cloth or wet paper towels. Drippings will steam and loosen while
the meal is being served. A soapy fine steel wool pad may also be used
if needed. Do not cover broiler pan insert with aluminum foil during
broiling. Grease MUST be allowed to drip through the broiler pan insert
into the lower pan away from the heat.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                              ACCESSORIES

ROTISSERIE

Rotisserie with burner above food: Use broiler pan without insert as a
drip pan. Keep at least ½ inch of water in pan to eliminate spattering
of basting sauces and to aid cleaning.

Rotisserie with indirect heat from oven burner: Water in the rotisserie
pan is not recommended when using this type rotisserie. Since the water
is between the food and the burner—there is too much steaming. Instead,
crumple aluminum foil and place in rotisserie pan to catch drippings and
help reduce spattering.


                                GRIDDLE

To keep a gleaming griddle, turn off the flame when cooking is finished
and wipe the surface with paper towels. When cool, wash with hot soapy
water (not synthetic detergent), rinse and dry thoroughly. Avoid using a
soda or alkaline cleaner.

To preserve the finish of the griddle never scrape it with knives or
other sharp objects.

Overheating or sudden temperature changes can damage a griddle.

Teflon: Refer to manufacturer’s instructions.


                              LIGHT BULBS

If oven light needs replacing, buy a 40 watt Heat Resistant lamp (not an
ordinary light bulb). Turn light switch to OFF position, cover old lamp
with a dry cloth and unscrew; replace with new one. When cleaning, do
not touch hot lamp with a wet cloth; it may break.


CLEANING CHART

 MATERIAL OR FINISH   RANGE PART           TO REMOVE SOIL

 Porcelain Enamel     Cook Top             Detergent OR baking soda (3
                      Door and Side Panels Tbsp. to 1 qt. water) and hot
                      Burner Grids         water
                      Burner Bowls
                      Oven Interiors       Detergent OR ammonia and hot
                      Broiler Pan          water
                      Broiler Compartment  Soap filled steel wool pad
                      Interior             with plenty of water
                      Oven Racks and       Ammonia Solution (½ C. to 1
                      Guides               gal. water)
 Chrome               Burner Bowls         Detergent and hot water or
                      Oven Interior        chrome polish
                      Handles
 Aluminum             Burner Caps          Detergent and hot water,
                      Trim                 soapy fine steel wool pad, or
                                           aluminum cleaner. Dry
                                           aluminum parts fairly
                                           rapidly. To prevent
                                           darkening, do not soak.
 Glass, Plastic and   Back Panel           Detergent and hot water only;
 Enamel Paint         Oven Window          rinse well and polish dry.
                      Burner Control Knob
                      Range Bottom
 Stainless Steel or   Doors                Full strength ammonia OR full
 Brushed Chrome       Range Tops           strength liquid all-purpose
                                           cleaner with ammonia; rinse
                                           well and polish dry.


                    {decorative drawing}TOP OF RANGE

TOP BURNERS

Gas burners provide a thousand and one shades of heat from high to very
low to suit every cooking need. Heat is supplied instantly, and there is
no leftover heat when the burner is turned off. To use the burner, turn
the burner control until the burner ignites; then turn to adjust the
flame size. Some burners have audible “clicks” to indicate heat
settings.

                               FLAME SIZE

Correct flame size is determined by pan size, pan material, what you are
cooking and whether you are cooking with liquid. Even when cooking in a
liquid or with a pan which conducts heat well, you may want to lower the
flame to adjust for pan size (see sketch below). The flame should never
extend beyond the outer edge of the utensil. Any higher flame is wasted
heat.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

For all cooking in aluminum utensils or for cooking in liquid in other
utensils, adjust the flame so it touches the pan about ½ inch from the
outer edge.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

For non-aluminum pans (unless you are cooking in liquid) adjust the
flame so it is about half the diameter of the pan.

Foods cook just as quickly at a gentle boil as at a rapid rolling
boil—in both cases the water temperature is 212 degrees. A high boil is
used only to bring food to the boiling point; then lower the flame and
finish cooking with a minimum flame.

EXCESS HEAT RESULTS IN HARD-TO-CLEAN GREASE AND STEAM DEPOSITS ON WALLS,
CABINETS AND CEILINGS. WHILE THE FUEL IS OFTEN BLAMED FOR SUCH DIRT, THE
REAL PROBLEM IS TOO MUCH HEAT AND/OR FAILURE TO COVER UTENSILS WHENEVER
POSSIBLE.

                               HIGH FLAME

For instant heat needed to bring foods to a rapid boil.

                              MEDIUM FLAME

To brown and fry food.

                              SIMMER FLAME

To maintain gentle boil for boiling or steaming, cream sauces, gravies,
puddings, etc.

                               KEEP WARM

To keep foods hot without additional cooking; melting and keeping hot
beverages at serving temperature. Always cover utensils with this
setting.

                            FLAME ADJUSTMENT

Of all its advantages, the cleanliness of GAS is perhaps the greatest. A
properly adjusted Gas flame is one of the cleanest energy sources known.

The color of the flame is the key to proper burner adjustment. A good
flame is clear and blue and hardly visible in a well lighted room. Each
cone of flame should be steady and sharply defined.


                  A THOUGHT OR TWO ABOUT A POT OR TWO

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Cooking is easier with the correct pan; a well designed pan. Look for
  these characteristics when selecting new pans:

                              GOOD BALANCE

aids even heating and ease of use. The pan should set level with or
without food.

                           WELL FITTED COVER

helps to retain moisture, flavor and nutrients during the cooking
process. It keeps temperature in the pan more even and holds in heat,
aroma, and steam. Cover pans whenever you can so foods cook with maximum
speed and minimum clean-up. Cooking with a cover will require a lower
flame setting than will be needed for the same food cooked uncovered.

                         HEAT-RESISTANT HANDLE

aids in easy handling of the utensil and avoids discomfort or burn.

                        DENT-RESISTANT MATERIAL

aids in retaining the original shape of the pan to insure good lid fit
and ease in cleaning.

                      GOOD HEAT CONDUCTOR MATERIAL

insures more even heating of the pan and more even browning or cooking.
Examples of good heat conducting materials are: aluminum or
aluminum-clad stainless steel. Materials which conduct heat slowly
(stainless steel, cast iron, glass and enamel) may require special
attention for desired results. GENERALLY, LOWER FLAME HEIGHTS ARE BEST
FOR NON-ALUMINUM UTENSILS.




        COOKING ON THE “BURNER-WITH-A-BRAIN”{decorative drawing}


            THERMOSTATIC TOP BURNER WITH FLAME SIZE CONTROL

This new flexible control permits you to cook automatically in utensils
of many types and sizes. Temperature is thermostatically controlled by a
sensing device in the center of the burner. The sensing device, in
contact with the pan bottom, transmits food temperature to a thermostat
which maintains any degree of heat you select, automatically.

The flame size control is an added convenience to permit easy adjustment
of the height of the flame on the burner. The size of flame should be
selected to fit the size or type of cooking utensil, or the kind of food
or cooking to be done. A low size flame is best for small utensils, for
non-aluminum pans (stainless steel, cast iron, glass and enamel), and
foods requiring a temperature of 200 degrees or below.

                     TIMED OR PROGRAMMED TOP BURNER

Some thermostatic top burners are available which can be set to cook at
any temperature, then AUTOMATICALLY reduce to a holding temperature. For
details, refer to manufacturer’s instruction booklet.

              ADVANTAGES OF “BURNER-WITH-A-BRAIN” COOKING:

1. Food is better because each food can be cooked at the most desirable,
accurate temperature.

2. Cooking is more carefree because the temperature selected is
maintained automatically. Burning, scorching, boil-overs and
pot-watching are eliminated.

3. After cooking the food can be held on the “LOW” setting when there
are unavoidable delays at serving time. Even mashed potatoes will stay
hot and fluffy without scorching!

4. Results are excellent when doing special types of cooking such as
deep fat frying, griddle cooking, warming leftovers, popcorn, skillet
meals, and sensitive foods such as custards and cream sauces because it
assures even, accurate temperature control.

                             BEST RESULTS:

1. Use flat bottomed utensils which make good contact with the sensing
device. Try also to choose pans that fit the quantity of food you are
cooking. Utensils perform best when nearly full.

2. Aluminum conducts heat very well and is ideal for use on the
thermostatic top burner.

3. Do not use glass utensils unless food is cooked in liquid.

4. The top of the sensing device and the bottom of the utensil should be
kept clean.

5. In frying foods, particularly meats, make certain that the center of
the pan over the sensing device is covered with food.

6. Generally, lower flame heights are best for non-aluminum utensils.

7. When meats with bones are pan broiled and insufficient fat is
obtained from the meat, it may be necessary to add a small amount of
shortening to insure good contact between pan and meat.

8. Frying in pyroceram (Corningware) requires low flame size and 25 to
50 degrees lower temperature.

9. When cakes, breads or desserts are baked on the thermostatic top
burner, the top of the food has a slightly steamed appearance. Remove
cover for last 5 minutes to allow food to dry on top.

10. Preheating is necessary when pan frying, deep fat frying, pan
broiling and griddle cooking. Put the shortening in the pan (except for
pan broiling) and set the thermostatic control at the flame size and
temperature recommended for the food being cooked. When the temperature
is reached, the flame will automatically lower or diminish completely
and you can begin to fry then or whenever you are ready. The burner will
automatically increase or decrease the flame as needed to maintain the
selected temperature.

11. Tight-fitting lids keep heat, moisture and flavor inside the pan and
should be used for warming, melting, simmering, steaming and most
boiling. Cooking without a cover will require a higher temperature
setting than will be needed for the same food cooked covered. Frying and
pan broiling do not require covers.

12. It may be helpful to record the temperature settings which give you
the best results.


                     TIME AND TEMPERATURE GUIDE FOR
                         “BURNER-WITH-A-BRAIN”

Personal taste, the quantity of food and other factors may necessitate a
slightly higher or lower temperature. Reduce flame size for all small
utensils before selecting temperature and for nonaluminum pans
(stainless steel, cast iron, glass and enamel). To fry in pyroceram
(Corningware) utensils, lower temperature 25 degrees to 50 degrees.

ALUMINUM IS THE BEST HEAT CONDUCTOR AND IS IDEAL FOR USE ON THERMOSTATIC
TOP BURNER.

                              CONTROL SETTING
 FOOD                                   TEMPERATURE   APPROXIMATE COOKING
                                                              TIME

 BEVERAGES
   Cocoa                                175°-200°    10 to 15 Min.
   Coffee
     Percolator                         225°-250°    12 to 15 Min.
     Vacuum                             185°         8 to 10 Min.
   To Keep Warm                         150°-175°
 BREADS
   Grilled Sandwiches                   325°-350°    2 to 3 Min. per side
   French Toast                         325°-350°    3 to 4 Min. per side
   Pancakes                             350°-375°    1 to 3 Min. per side
 CAKES
   (Bake in 10-inch skillet, covered)
   Gingerbread                          250°         30 to 35 Min.
   Package Cake, 1 layer                250°         25 to 30 Min.
   Pineapple Upside-down Cake, 1 layer  250°         25 to 30 Min.
 CANDY
   (Use a heavy pan, preferably aluminum)
   Fudge                                250°         To soft ball stage on
                                                     candy thermometer
   Divinity                             250°         To hard ball stage on
                                                     candy thermometer
   Peanut Brittle                       325°-350°    15 to 20 Min. or hard
                                                     cracked stage on
                                                     candy thermometer
 CEREAL
   (added to boiling water)
   Cream of Wheat (quick)               175°-200°    5 Min.
   Oatmeal (quick)                      175°-200°    3 to 5 Min.
   Macaroni, Spaghetti and Noodles      225°-250°    Until tender
   Rice                                 210°-225°    20 Min.
 DESSERTS
   Custards:
     Soft (stirred)                     175°-190°    4 to 7 Min.
     Steamed, individual                175°-190°    20 to 30 Min.
   Puddings:
     Cream Pie Filling                  200°-210°    6 to 8 Min.
     Package Mix                        200°         4 to 8 Min.
     Steamed, 1-qt. mold                200°         According to recipe
     Tapioca                            200°         5 to 8 Min.
 EGGS
   Fried                                200°-225°    2 to 4 Min. preheated
                                                     skillet
   Omelet                               250°-300°    3 to 5 Min.
   Poached                              175°-200°    3 to 7 Min., covered
   Hard Cooked                          200°         20 Min., covered
   Soft Cooked
     (Added to boiling water)           200°-225°    3 to 6 Min.
   Scrambled                            200°-225°    2 to 4 Min. preheated
                                                     skillet
 FRUITS
   Applesauce                           200°         15 to 20 Min., covered
   Cranberry Sauce                      225°         15 to 20 Min.
   Dried Fruits, 1 lb.                  190°-200°    15 to 35 Min.
 FROSTINGS
     (Use heavy pan, preferably aluminum)
   Boiled                               250°-275°    8 to 10 Min. or long
                                                     thread
   Fudge or Caramel                     250°-275°    12 to 14 Min. or soft
                                                     ball
   Seven Minute                         190°-200°    3 to 10 Min.
 JAM AND JELLY
   Jam, 3 to 4 lb., fruit               225°         According to recipe
   Jelly, 2 cups juice                  250°         Until jelly “sheets″
 FISH, MEAT AND POULTRY
   Bacon (do not preheat pan)           300°-325°    3 to 5 Min. per side
   Braised Meat                         350°         Until brown
                                        210°         Until tender
   Canadian Bacon                       275°-300°    2 to 5 Min. per side
   Chicken, cut up                      325°         Until brown
                                        210°-225°    20 to 40 Min., covered
   Fish Fillets                         325°         4 to 5 Min. per side
   Ground Beef Patties                  300°-325°    4 to 6 Min. per side
   Ham Slice, ¼″ to ½″ thick            300°         6 to 8 Min. per side
   Liver, ¼″ to ½″ thick                275°         3 to 5 Min. per side
   Pork Chops, ½″ to 1″ thick           275°         Until brown
                                        200°         20 to 40 Min., covered
   Pork Sausage                         275°         Until thoroughly
                                                     cooked
   Pot Roast, 3 to 5 lb.                325°         Until brown
                                        200°-215°    3 to 4 Hr., covered
   Steak, Cube                          350°         2 Min. per side for
                                                     medium doneness
   Steak, Sirloin, Club, T-Bone or Rib  325°         3 to 7 Min. per side
   ½″ to ¾″ thick                                    for medium doneness
 SAUCES
     (Cook uncovered, stirring constantly)
   Barbecue Sauce                       210°         15 Min.
   Gravy                                200°-225°    5 to 8 Min.
   White Sauce                          200°-210°    4 to 6 Min.
 SOUPS
     (Cook covered, stirring occasionally)
   Heating creamed soups                200°         8 to 10 Min.
   Vegetable                            210°         2 to 3 Hr.
 VEGETABLES
   Fresh or frozen                      210°-225°    Until tender, covered
   Potatoes:
     Baked                              375°         1 to 1½ hrs., on rack
                                                     in covered aluminum
                                                     pan
     Hash Brown                         325°         Until brown
     Sweet Potatoes (candied)           225°-235°    10 to 20 Min.
 SPECIAL COOKING OPERATIONS             See directions on following pages
 DEEP FAT FRYING
   Shrimp, Oysters, etc.                375°-400°    2 to 6 Min.
   Doughnuts, Fritters                  375°-400°    3 to 6 Min.
   Onion Rings                          375°-400°    6 to 7 Min.
   Potatoes                             375°-400°    6 to 10 Min.
 MISCELLANEOUS
   Melting Chocolate, Cheese, Butter    175°         7 to 9 Min., covered
                                                     metal pan
   Popcorn                              375°         3 to 6 Min.
   Pressure Cooking                     Follow manufacturer’s instructions
                                        225°-235°    5 lb. pressure
                                        235°-240°    10 lb. pressure
                                        240°-250°    15 lb. pressure
 WARMING
   Baby Bottle                          Low to 150°  Until warm
   Leftovers                            150°-175°    10 to 20 Min.,
                                                     covered pan
   Rolls, wrapped in foil on rack       250°         15 to 20 Min.,
                                                     covered aluminum pan

  To convert a favorite recipe to Burner-with-a-Brain cooking—if the
                             recipe says:

  Warm or melt                 use             150°-175° or Low
  Simmer or low                use                 175°-200°
  Boil                         use                 200°-225°
  High boil                    use                 225°-250°
  Fry                          use                 250°-375°
  Deep fat fry                 use                 375°-400°




                   RECIPES FOR “BURNER-WITH-A-BRAIN”


                           TOASTED POUND CAKE

For a simple but delicious dessert, toast slices of pound cake. Preheat
griddle on the thermostatic top burner at 300 degrees. Cut slices of
pound cake one inch thick; butter both sides or leave plain, depending
on your flavor preference. When flame lowers, grill on hot griddle for
about 3 minutes per side or until nicely browned. Serve plain or topped
with ice cream and/or sauce.


                             WARMING ROLLS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Wrap rolls or muffins in double thickness of aluminum foil, folding
edges under tightly. Place foil wrapped package on rack or crumpled
aluminum foil in aluminum skillet or saucepan on thermostatic top burner
at 250 degrees for 15 to 20 minutes or until heated through.


                            HARD COOKED EGGS

  Eggs
  1 Tbsp. water for EACH egg

Place eggs and water in pan. Cover with tight fitting lid. Cook on
thermostatic top burner at 200 degrees for 20 minutes. Remove from
flame, pour off hot water and immediately cool with cold water. Peel
immediately or refrigerate, peeling later. This method of preparation
eliminates pot watching, cracked eggs and dark ring around yolks.


                           “PAN BAKED” APPLES

Wash and core 6 baking apples. Add a dash of cinnamon, one Tbsp. sugar
and a dot of butter to each apple. Place apples in skillet or saucepan.
Add one Tbsp. water for each apple to be cooked. Cover and cook on
thermostatic top burner at 212 degrees for 15 to 20 minutes. Spoon sauce
in bottom of skillet over each apple before serving.


                          “PAN BAKED” POTATOES

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Place scrubbed potatoes on a rack or on crumpled aluminum foil in
aluminum skillet or saucepan. Do not add water or wrap potatoes in foil.
Cover skillet or saucepan and bake on thermostatic top burner at 375
degrees until done, about 1 to 1½ hours.


                     “BUTTER BOIL” FROZEN VEGETABLE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Break up frozen vegetable by pounding package against edge of counter.
Place vegetable in saucepan with 2 to 3 tablespoons butter and ½
teaspoon salt. For starchy vegetables like lima beans and corn, 1 or 2
tablespoons of water may be needed. Cook on thermostatic top burner at
210 degrees. Cook time indicated on package plus 5 minutes.

NOTE: To prevent breaking spears of asparagus and broccoli, thaw just
enough to break apart.


                              FLUFFY RICE

For 3 cups of cooked white rice, place 1 cup uncooked rice, 2 cups water
and 1 teaspoon salt in 2-qt. saucepan. Place on thermostatic top burner
at 225 degrees. Bring to a boil, then cover pan, lower temperature
setting to 190 degrees, and simmer about 15 minutes or until water is
absorbed and rice is tender. For extra fluffy rice, turn burner off and
let rice stand, covered for 10 minutes more.

Brown and wild rice are best cooked this way also, but cooking time will
be much longer—about 35 to 45 minutes total cooking time. Also, add
about ½ cup more water.


                                POPCORN

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Place 2 tablespoons of oil and ½ cup popcorn in 10-inch aluminum skillet
or saucepan. Cover tightly and place on thermostatic top burner at 375
degrees. Heat until popping stops, about 3 minutes. No need to shake the
pan. Pour into serving bowl and toss with melted butter and salt.


                       TO USE PRESSURE SAUCEPANS

Pressure cooking is extremely easy with a thermostatic top burner. The
following temperatures may be used as a guide: 240° to 250° for 15
pounds pressure, 235° to 240° for 10 pounds, and 225° to 235° for 5
pounds. Use medium flame if the pressure saucepan is of non-aluminum
material. Raise or lower the temperature if needed to maintain the
correct pressure; once it is determined, record it for future use. Time
pressure cooking from the time the desired pressure is reached.


                            DEEP FAT FRYING

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Accurate top burner temperature control makes deep fat frying just as
easy as boiling water. Use a deep aluminum skillet or French fryer so
oil will only half fill it and completely cover food. Preheat oil at
recommended temperature (usually 375 to 400 degrees) until flame lowers,
about 10 minutes. Add food in small amounts, cook until brown, turning
once. Remove and drain on absorbent paper.


                              PAN BROILING

Set thermostatic top burner at 275 to 350 degrees depending on kind of
meat and thickness. Preheat the griddle or skillet until the flame
reduces. Rub pan lightly with a bit of meat fat. Brown meat on both
sides. Do not cover. Do not add water. Pour off fat as it accumulates in
pan. Turn meat occasionally so that it cooks evenly. Season and serve.


                           HAM SKILLET DINNER

  1 ham slice, ½-inch thick
  1 tsp. butter or margarine
  8 small potatoes
  1 pkg. (10-oz) frozen green beans
  ½ C. chopped onion
  ½ tsp. salt
  Dash pepper
  ½ C. water

Brown ham slice on both sides in butter in large skillet. Add potatoes,
green beans, onion, salt, pepper and water. Cover and place on
thermostatic top burner at 215 degrees for 30 minutes. Makes 4 servings.


                      APPLESAUCE UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE

  ½ pkg. applesauce spice cake mix (plus ingredients necessary to
          prepare according to directions on pkg.)
  6 Tbsp. butter or margarine
  ¾ C. brown sugar, packed
  1 C. canned apple slices, drained
  ¼ C. maraschino cherries

Prepare cake mix according to directions on package. Combine butter and
brown sugar in 10-inch skillet; heat enough to melt and blend together.
Arrange apple slices and maraschino cherries on sugar mixture. Spread
cake batter over fruit. Cover skillet. Cook on thermostatic top burner
at 250 degrees for 25 minutes. Uncover; allow to cook 5 minutes longer.
Cool 2 to 3 minutes. Loosen sides and invert on platter, allowing pan to
remain in position for 1 minute. Remove pan and serve. Makes 6 to 8
servings.


                         TOP BURNER CHEESE CAKE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  2 C. graham cracker crumbs
  ¼ tsp. cinnamon
  ¼ C. butter or margarine, softened
  2 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese
  1 C. coffee cream
  1 C. sugar
  2 Tbsp. all-purpose flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  3 eggs, separated
  1 tsp. vanilla extract
  ¾ tsp. grated lemon peel

Cut two double thickness strips of aluminum foil 18 × 3 inches. Place
crosswise over bottom and up side of 10-inch skillet, extending about an
inch above rim of skillet. Cut a circle of foil to fit bottom of skillet
and lay over foil strips. Grease foil and sides of skillet. Mix graham
cracker crumbs and cinnamon. Cut in butter. Press mixture on bottom and
about 2 inches up sides of skillet. Soften cream cheese, add cream and
beat until smooth. Add combined sugar, flour and salt; blend. Add
unbeaten egg yolks, vanilla extract and lemon peel; mix well. Beat egg
whites to soft peak stage and fold into cheese mixture. Pour into
crumb-lined pan and place on thermostatic top burner at medium flame and
235 degrees. Cover tightly and bake for one hour. Turn burner off and
let cake stand one hour. Refrigerate covered, for 3 to 4 hours.
Carefully lift cake from pan, using foil strips and transfer to serving
plate. Trim off excess foil or pull strips carefully from underneath the
cake. Spoon Festive Raspberry Sauce over individual servings if desired.
Makes 10 to 12 servings.

NOTE: At the end of the cooking time this cheese cake will be very soft
in the center. After 3 to 4 hours refrigeration, the cake will be firm
enough to cut.


                        FESTIVE RASPBERRY SAUCE:

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  2 10-oz. pkg. frozen raspberries, thawed
  2 Tbsp. sugar
  2 tsp. cornstarch

Drain raspberries; reserve sirup. Combine sugar and cornstarch; add to
reserved sirup in saucepan. Cook and stir on thermostatic top burner at
medium flame and 212 degrees until mixture comes to a boil and thickens;
cool. Add raspberries; refrigerate. When chilled, spoon raspberry sauce
over cheese cake.


                              QUICK FUDGE

  2 C. sugar
  3 Tbsp. butter or margarine
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 C. evaporated milk
  ½ C. miniature marshmallows
  1½ C. semi-sweet chocolate pieces
  ⅔ C. chopped nuts
  1 tsp. vanilla extract

Mix sugar, butter, salt and milk in a 10-inch skillet. Place over
thermostatic top burner at 300 degrees. Bring mixture to a boil,
stirring until sugar is dissolved. Continue stirring and allow to boil 4
to 5 minutes. Turn burner off. Add marshmallows, chocolate, nuts and
vanilla; stir until marshmallows and chocolate are completely melted and
smoothly blended. Place in a buttered 8-inch square pan, spreading
evenly. Cool before cutting into squares. Makes approximately 2 pounds.




                      GRIDDLE{decorative drawing}


One type of griddle is designed by the range manufacturer to fit over
one of the surface burners. It can usually be converted to a fifth
burner and is often thermostatically controlled. The other type is a
portable separate utensil which fits over any range burner.

The griddle should be seasoned before using for the first time. To do
this, brush surface with unsalted shortening. Heat on thermostatic top
burner at 325 degrees for 15 minutes. Turn flame off and allow griddle
to cool. While griddle is still warm, wipe off excess shortening with
paper towel. The griddle is now ready for use.

The recommended thermostatic controlled burner temperature or a medium
flame should be used when grilling foods. If griddle has no temperature
indicator or is not thermostatically controlled, use a few drops of
water as a test for proper cooking temperature. The water will form
beads and “dance” when the griddle is ready to use.




                             GRILLING GUIDE


Preheat griddle at high flame and recommended temperature. Rub griddle
lightly with a bit of meat fat.

 FOOD                     THICKNESS  TEMPERATURE       TOTAL TIME

 BEEF:
     Club, T-Bone, Rib,       ¾″      325°-350°   12-14 min. for medium
     Sirloin Steaks
     Cube Steaks              ¼″      350°-375°    4-6 min. for medium
     Ground Beef Patties   ½″ to 1″   300°-325°   8-12 min. for medium
 EGGS                                    300°           2-4 min.
 FRENCH TOAST                         350°-375°         2-3 min.
 LAMB CHOPS                ½″ to ¾″   300°-350°        16-20 min.
 PANCAKES                             375°-400°         3-4 min.
 PORK:
     [a]Bacon                 ⅛″      300°-325°         6-10 min.
     Canadian Bacon           ⅛″      275°-300°         4-6 min.
     Ham Slice                ½″      275°-300°        10-14 min.
     [a]Sausage Patties       ½″      275°-300°        12-14 min.

[a]Do not preheat griddle.




 IT’S EASY TO BAKE WITH ... THE MODERN FUEL ... GAS{decorative drawing}


                          BLUE FLAME OVEN TIPS

The oven should be allowed to preheat 10 to 15 minutes for most baking
and all roasting operations.

Arrange pans 1½ inches from sides of oven and from each other for best
heat circulation. There should also be 1½ inches of air space above and
below each pan.

It is possible to use both racks at the same time in a Gas oven and
still be assured of even browning. Two sheets of cookies or 4 layers of
cake can be baked without shifting the pans. When using two racks and
several pans, stagger the pans so no pan is squarely above another.

The most desirable baking results are obtained when the correct pan is
used. Use the size pan recommended in the recipe. Use a medium weight
aluminum or glass cake pan. Do not expect warped or darkened pans to
produce even browning or a level product.

If food runs over in the oven, sprinkle with salt to stop smoking. Clean
as soon as baking has been completed and oven has cooled.

Use minute timer to remind you when to check foods.

With a window in the door and an interior oven light, the cooking
progress may be checked without opening the door. Leave oven door closed
at least until the minimum baking time has elapsed.

When baking in glass pans, lower recommended temperature 25 degrees and
use the recommended time.

For mixes, packaged and frozen foods, follow label directions. Remember,
however, that cooking times are approximate and can be adjusted to suit
personal preferences.

The non-tip oven rack may be pulled out for loading and unloading the
oven without reaching into the heated oven.

Oven meals requiring same time and temperature for all foods have been
planned on the following pages. Your own favorite recipes can also be
cooked and held automatically with the new programmed system.

                          USE OF ALUMINUM FOIL

If aluminum foil is used in the oven, place a small sheet in the center
of the oven bottom. The heated air MUST be allowed to circulate freely
through the openings toward the outer edge of the oven bottom. DO NOT
completely cover the oven bottom. DO NOT cover an oven rack with foil.
Use aluminum foil only when absolutely necessary. DO NOT leave foil in
the oven permanently. If these instructions are not followed, damage to
the range and unsatisfactory baking results can be expected.

                               MEAT PROBE

A meat probe is a device for measuring, indicating and/or controlling
internal temperature of meats by means of a metal probe inserted into
the roast and linked to an indicator or actuator. This convenience
feature eliminates guesswork and insures perfection every time.

Wipe meat with a clean, damp cloth. Season and place, fat side up, on
rack in shallow roasting pan. Basting is not necessary.

When inserting probe into meat, put center section of probe into the
lean center muscle away from bone and fat and as near the center of the
meat as possible. When in use, the meat probe tip should be INSIDE the
meat, not sticking through the meat and out the other side.

Always make certain the full length of probe is inserted in the meat.
This may mean the probe will be inserted at an angle to have tip in
center of muscle.

Plug other end of cable into socket in oven wall.

Turn selector dial to desired degree of doneness.

Set oven thermostat to 325 degrees.

DO NOT put an aluminum foil cover on meat when probe is used.

When roasting is completed, the control automatically signals, turns the
oven off and/or reduces to and maintains a keep-warm temperature,
depending on the type of thermometer.

Refer to manufacturer’s instruction booklet for further information.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                          MEAT ROASTING GUIDE
                      OVEN TEMPERATURE 325 DEGREES


 Cut                               Approx.      Approx.         Meat
                                 Minutes Per  Minutes Per   Thermometer
                                 Pound (3 to  Pound (5 to   Reading When
                                   5 lbs.)      8 lbs.)    Done (degrees
                                                                F.)

 BEEF
   Rolled Rib
     Rare                           31-36        27-30          140
     Medium                         36-40        32-35          160
     Well-done                      40-45        38-40          170
   Standing Rib
     Rare                           21-26        17-22          140
     Medium                         26-30        22-26          160
     Well-done                      30-35        28-33          170
 VEAL
   Leg                              35-40          30           170
   Loin                               35           30           170
   Shoulder (boned and rolled)        45           40           170
 LAMB
   Leg
     Medium                           35           30           175
     Well-done                        40           35           182
   Shoulder (bone in)               30-35                       182
   Shoulder (boned and rolled)        40                        182
 FRESH PORK
   Rib and Loin                     35-40          35           170
   Shoulder, Picnic                   40         35-40          185
   Shoulder, Butt                   50-55                       185
   Fresh Ham, Whole (10-14 lbs.)    35-40                       185

 Cut                                 Minutes Per Pound          Meat
                                                            Thermometer
                                                            Reading When
                                                           Done (degrees
                                                                F.)

 SMOKED HAM (Mild Cure)
   15 lbs. and over                         20                  160
   12-15 lbs.                              21-22                160
   10-12 lbs.                              23-24                160
   Under 10 lbs                            25-26                160
   Half Hams (5-8 lbs.)                    26-28                160
   Picnic Shoulder                         30-35                170
   Cottage Roll                            35-40                170




                         POULTRY ROASTING GUIDE


Place breast-side up on rack in shallow pan. Brush skin with fat or
cover with fat-moistened cloth.

                 Ready-to-Cook         Oven       Approx. Roasting Time
                Weight (pounds)    Temperature       Stuffed (Hours)

  CHICKEN            1½-2½             325                 1¼-2
                     2½-3½             325                 2-3
                     3½-4¾             325                 3-3½
  TURKEY (Note: Unstuffed birds require 5 min. less time per lb.)
                      6-8              325                 3-3½
                      8-12             325                3½-4½
                     12-16             325                4½-5½
                     16-20             325                5½-6½
                     20-24             325                 6½-7




                            RECIPES FOR OVEN


                              POTATO ROLLS

  1 C. milk, scalded
  1 C. mashed potatoes or ¼ C. instant potatoes prepared according to
          package directions
  ¾ C. shortening
  1 C. sifted all-purpose flour
  ½ C. sugar
  1 Tbsp. salt
  1 cake compressed yeast
  ½ C. lukewarm water
  2 eggs, beaten
  4½ to 5 C. sifted all-purpose flour

Combine milk, potatoes, shortening, 1 C. flour, sugar and salt in large
mixing bowl; let stand until lukewarm. Add yeast softened in lukewarm
water; add eggs. Let stand 1 hour. Stir and add 4½ to 5 C. flour to make
a slightly stiff dough. Knead until smooth on lightly floured surface.
Return to greased mixing bowl. Let rise about 1 hour or until doubled in
bulk. Shape desired number of rolls; place on greased baking sheet; let
rise 1 to 1¼ hours or until doubled in bulk. Bake in Gas oven at 425
degrees 10 to 12 minutes. Makes 3 dozen medium-sized rolls.

NOTE: Punch down unused dough, cover and place in refrigerator until
      ready to use.


                          FOR CINNAMON ROLLS:

Use enough Potato Roll dough to roll into 12 × 6 inches rectangle,
¼-inch thick. Spread with mixture of ¼ C. melted butter, ¼ C. brown
sugar, 1 tsp. cinnamon and ¼ C. chopped pecans. Roll as for jelly roll,
cut into 9 slices. Butter a 9-inch square baking dish and pour in ¼ C.
light corn sirup. Place rolls, cut side up, in dish. Let rise 1 to 1½
hours or until doubled in bulk. Bake in Gas oven at 425 degrees 12 to 15
minutes. Makes 9 rolls.


                      SOUTHERN BUTTERMILK BISCUITS

  2¼ C. sifted all-purpose flour
  ¾ tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. soda
  1 Tbsp. baking powder
  ½ C. + 2 Tbsp. shortening
  ¾ to 1 C. buttermilk

Sift together flour, salt, soda and baking powder. Cut in shortening
with pastry blender or two knives until mixture resembles coarse corn
meal. Stir in ¾ C. milk. Add enough more milk to make dough light and
soft but not sticky. Turn out on lightly floured board or pastry cloth.
Knead gently about 6 times. Roll dough to ½-inch thickness. Cut with
floured biscuit cutter. Place on ungreased baking sheet. Bake in Gas
oven at 450 degrees 10 to 12 minutes. Makes about 12 2-inch biscuits.


                              LEMON BREAD

  6 Tbsp. shortening
  1 C. sugar
  2 eggs, beaten
  1 Tbsp. grated lemon peel
  1½ C. sifted all-purpose flour
  1 tsp. baking powder
  ½ tsp. salt
  ½ C. milk
  ½ C. chopped English walnuts
  ⅓ C. sugar
  3 Tbsp. lemon juice

Cream shortening and sugar. Add beaten eggs and lemon peel. Sift flour,
baking powder and salt together and add alternately with milk. Fold in
nuts. Pour into greased and floured 8½ × 4½ × 2½-inch loaf pan. Bake in
Gas oven at 350 degrees for 1 hour or until done and lightly browned on
top. Remove from oven and let cool in pan 15 minutes. Dissolve ⅓ cup
sugar in lemon juice. Pour over bread. Let stand for 10 minutes. Remove
bread from pan and cool. This is an excellent bread to use for buttered
tea sandwiches.


                              PLAIN PASTRY

  2¼ C. sifted all-purpose flour
  1 tsp. salt
  5 Tbsp. water
  ¾ C. shortening

Sift flour and salt into bowl. Remove ⅓ C. flour mixture and combine
with water to form paste. Cut shortening into remaining flour until
pieces are the size of peas. Add paste to shortening-flour mixture. Mix
and shape into ball. For each crust, place half the pastry on floured
board or pastry cloth. Roll ⅛-inch thick with short, light strokes from
center out, keeping it circular in shape. Makes 2 nine-inch crusts.

_Note: For baked shell: 450 degrees for 10 to 12 minutes._


                           LEMON MERINGUE PIE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  ¾ C. sugar
  ½ C. all-purpose flour
  2 Tbsp. cornstarch
  ½ tsp. salt
  2¼ C. boiling water
  3 eggs, separated
  ¼ C. sugar
  6 Tbsp. lemon juice
  1 Tbsp. grated lemon peel
  1 baked 9-inch pie shell

Combine ¾ C. sugar with flour, cornstarch and salt in saucepan. Slowly
add boiling water, stirring constantly to keep smooth. Cook on
thermostatic top burner at 200 degrees, stirring constantly, until
smooth and thick enough to mound when dropped from spoon. Reduce
temperature to 190 degrees; cover and cook 15 minutes. Beat egg yolks
with ¼ C. sugar; gradually stir hot filling into egg yolk mixture.
Return to pan and continue to cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add lemon juice and peel; mix well. Pour into pie shell.


                               MERINGUE:

  3 egg whites
  ¼ tsp. cream of tartar
  6 Tbsp. sugar
  ½ tsp. vanilla extract, if desired

Beat egg whites with cream of tartar until frothy. Gradually beat in
sugar, a little at a time. Continue beating until stiff and glossy.
Blend in vanilla extract. Pile meringue onto pie filling, being careful
to seal the meringue to edge of crust to prevent shrinking. Bake in Gas
oven at 350 degrees for 12 to 15 minutes. Cool gradually, away from
drafts.


                             TOFFEE TREATS

  1 C. butter or margarine
  1 C. brown sugar, packed
  1 egg
  2 C. sifted all-purpose flour
  1 tsp. vanilla extract
  1 6-oz. pkg. semi-sweet chocolate pieces, melted
  ½ C. finely chopped nuts

Cream butter and sugar. Add egg; mix well. Add flour and vanilla; blend.
Spread dough to ½-inch thickness on a 17 × 14-inch greased cooky sheet
or in a 15½ × 10½-inch jelly roll pan. Spread with melted chocolate.
Sprinkle nuts over top and press into chocolate. Bake in Gas oven at 375
degrees for 15 to 20 minutes. Score while still warm. When cool, cut and
remove from cooky sheet. Makes approximately 4 dozen cookies.




            LOW-TEMPERATURE OVEN CONTROL{decorative drawing}


Your new Gas range has a new type of oven thermostat that provides
low-temperature heat control from 140° to 225°. This new feature has
miraculously opened up a new temperature area with many special uses.
See pages 30 and 31 to see how this control will help you!


                              GENERAL USE

OVEN OPERATION

You will notice the following characteristics with the new
low-temperature oven control:

1. After turning the oven control to the desired temperature, there will
be a slight delay (several seconds) before the oven burner comes on.

2. The oven burner turns on and off as the oven operates except at the
“Broil” setting. Baking times and temperatures are not affected by the
“off-on” control.

                               PREHEATING

When using temperatures below 225°, preheating is generally recommended.
To preheat, just turn the control to the temperature you want. It is not
necessary to turn it first to a higher setting. Allow 10 minutes for
preheating.

                            COOLING THE OVEN

Many ranges have the special feature of programmed cooking which reduces
the cooking temperature to the keep-warm setting automatically. However,
there are two ways to cool the oven manually to a lower holding
temperature:

1. The quickest method is to turn the oven control to the desired
low-temperature setting and open the oven door for 10 to 15 minutes to
allow excess heat to escape. Then close the door until ready to serve
the food.

2. A second method of cooling is to turn the oven control to the lower
setting about 15 minutes before the end of the usual cooking time for
the food you are preparing. Let the oven cool with the door closed. As
the oven cools gradually to the keep-warm temperature, the food will
finish cooking. If the oven door is opened during this cool down period
(approximately 45 minutes after you lower the temperature) additional
cooking time may be needed.

                        KEEPING WHOLE MEALS WARM

The setting recommended for the main course is usually a good compromise
if all the foods in a meal do not have the same recommended keep-warm
temperature.

                             COVERING FOODS

Moist foods should be tightly covered; many foods need only a loose
cover. Aluminum foil makes an ideal cover if the utensil has no lid.

                              CARVING MEAT

Generally it is best to wait until just before serving to carve
meats—especially rare or medium meats. However, if you do wish to carve
meats ahead of time, keep the exposed cut surfaces close together and
cover lightly with dampened paper towels or a dampened tea towel.

                      PRO-TEN® (PRE-TENDERED) BEEF

The papain used as a tendering agent continues to tenderize while the
meat is held at keep-warm temperatures. As a result, these meats can
become too tender after a holding period. Cuts which are not naturally
tender, such as chuck and brisket, hold best but should be served within
1 to 2 hours after cooking is completed.

®Swift and Co.

                   WARMING SERVING DISHES AND PLATES

Preheat the oven and warm dishes at 170°. Allow 10 to 20 minutes to warm
dishes thoroughly. Do not set warm dishes on a cold surface as rapid
temperature changes can cause cracking. Warm only china, pottery,
earthenware or enamelware (not silver).

                    TO THAW AND FRESHEN BAKED GOODS

Preheat oven to 170°. Wrap baked goods loosely to prevent drying and
permit evaporation of ice crystals formed during freezing. This
low-temperature oven method thaws three to four times faster than at
room temperature.

                              HOLDING TIME

Most cooked foods may be held safely at serving temperature for 4 hours
after cooking is completed. However, food is most palatable and
nutritious when served reasonably soon after cooking. Therefore, keep
foods warm no longer than necessary—preferably no more than 1½ to 2
hours.

Top burner cooked foods are most attractive when held an hour or less.
Green vegetables are especially subject to color and texture changes.




              KEEP-WARM TEMPERATURES FOR OVEN COOKED FOODS


Foods should be still hot from cooking—These temperatures will keep them
hot for serving.

 FOOD                                                TEMPERATURE SETTING

 Bacon                                                   200° to 225°
 Baked Potatoes                                          200° to 225°
 Beef, rare                                              155° to 170°
 Beef, medium                                            170° to 180°
 Beef, well done                                         170° to 200°
 Biscuits, Muffins                                       170° to 190°
 Casseroles (covered)                                        200°
 Fish, baked or broiled (cover loosely)                  170° to 200°
 Ham                                                     170° to 200°
 Lamb                                                    170° to 200°
 Pies, pastry                                            155° to 170°
 Pizza (cover loosely)                                       225°
 Pork, fresh or smoked                                   170° to 200°
 Poultry, roast                                          170° to 190°
 Poultry, fried                                          185° to 200°
 Rolls                                                       190°
 Seafood, baked or broiled (cover loosely)               170° to 200°




        KEEP-WARM OVEN TEMPERATURES FOR TOP-BURNER-COOKED FOODS


                                                     TEMPERATURE SETTING

 French-fried potatoes (uncovered, do not hold           200° to 225°
 longer than 15 minutes)
 Mashed potatoes (covered)                               155° to 170°
 Pancakes, French Toast (loosely covered)                200° to 225°
 Pan-fried meats, Fish and Poultry (loosely covered)     200° to 225°
 Vegetables (covered)                                        170°




                          TO THAW FROZEN FOODS


PREHEAT OVEN TO 155°. Leave foods tightly wrapped in their
moisture-vapor proof freezer wrapping. Thaw just enough to separate or
to handle easily and once thawed, do not refreeze. In general, foods
will thaw four times faster than at room temperature. Cook as soon as
possible after thawing.

                        FOOD                         APPROXIMATE THAWING
                                                         TIME AT 155°

 Fish steaks or fillets, 1 package                        40 minutes
 Frying chicken, cut up                                    1¼ hours
 Ground meat, 1 pound                                      1½ hours
 Meat patties or chops                                    45 minutes
 Poultry, 3 to 8 pounds                                 2 to 3½ hours
 Poultry, 8 to 12 pounds                                3½ to 5 hours
 Poultry, 12 to 20 pounds                                5 to 7 hours
 Rolled roast, 5 to 6 pounds                               4½ hours
 Round steak, 1-inch thick                                  1 hour




                 PROGRAMMED COOKING{decorative drawing}


One of the most outstanding, truly automatic features of the Gas range
is the programmed oven. Oven programming means that the oven will
automatically change at a set time from one temperature to
another—usually from a cooking to a keep-warm temperature. In other
words, set the oven control for the cooking temperature and the amount
of cooking time. The oven will cook the food, then automatically reduce
to a keep-warm temperature to hold the foods for serving without
over-cooking or drying out.

                      A. Foods which program well:

  1. Most main dishes, especially casseroles and foods in sauces.
  2. Covered foods.
  3. Yellow vegetables, onions, or beets. Green vegetables, up to 1 to 2
              hours; long holding period causes loss of color.
  4. Roasts and other large cuts of meat.
  5. Rice, noodles, macaroni.

B. Foods which should not be programmed:

  1. Foods such as cookies, pies, and cakes which require exact cooking
              times should be removed from oven immediately. If they are
              to be kept warm, they should be rewrapped to prevent
              drying and then placed in the keep-warm oven.
  2. Foods to be served immediately—souffles.
  3. Broiled foods.

C. General rules:

  1. Food may be held with safety for 4 hours after cooking is
              completed, but will be most palatable served within 1½ to
              2 hours.
  2. Any food which holds well in the low temperature oven usually
              programs well also.
  3. FOR SPECIFIC PROGRAMMED OVEN FEATURES, REFER TO YOUR RANGE
              MANUFACTURER’S INSTRUCTION BOOKLET.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                        PROGRAMMED COOKING GUIDE


 Food                              Weight  Temperature  Approx.  Maximum
                                   Pounds    Setting    Cooking  Holding
                                             Degrees      Time     Time
                                                         Hours    Hours

 Rolled Rib Beef Roast, Medium        4        325        2½-3      4
 Leg of Lamb Roast, Well Done         6        325         3½       4
 Loin End Pork Roast                  5        325         4        4
 Cured, Whole Ham                    12        325         3½       4
 Veal Loin Roast                      5        325         3        4
 Meat Loaf, Well Done                 3        350         1½       3
 Chicken, Stuffed                   3½-4½      325        3-3½      3
 Baked Fish, Stuffed                2½-3½      400      45 min.     2
 Ham Slice With Raisin Sauce                   350         1        3
 Stuffed Pork Chops                            350         1½       3
 Swiss Steak (covered)                         350         1½       4
 Glazed Carrots and Onions (covered)           350         1½       3
 Scalloped Potatoes (covered)                  350         1½       3
 Stewed Tomatoes                               350         1        4
 Macaroni and Cheese Casserole                 350      45 min.     3
 Tuna and Noodle Casserole                     400      40 min.     2
 Turkey Casserole                              350      25 min.     3
 Apple Crisp                                   375      45 min.     4
 Fudge Pudding                                 350         1        3

Many variables such as size, composition and initial temperature of the
meat are often encountered in roasts of the same weight. Therefore, the
oven timer settings can only be approximate. For more accurate and
unattended meat roasting a meat probe is recommended.




                         PROGRAMMED OVEN MEALS




                              OVEN MEAL 1


  Glazed Ham Slice
  Succotash With Onion Butter
  Fruit Compote
  Temperature: 350 degrees
  Time: 1 hour

(Complete the meal with Hearts of Lettuce Salad, bread and beverage.)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                            GLAZED HAM SLICE

  1 center ham slice, 1-inch thick
  ¾ C. corn sirup
  3 Tbsp. vinegar
  3 Tbsp. dry mustard
  ¼ C. water

Slash fat on ham slice and place in shallow baking dish. Spread with
mixture of corn sirup, vinegar and dry mustard. Pour water around ham.
Bake in Gas oven at 350 degrees for 1 hour. Makes 6 servings.


                      SUCCOTASH WITH ONION BUTTER

  2 10-oz. pkgs. frozen succotash
  1 tsp. salt
  2 Tbsp. chopped onion
  ¼ C. butter or margarine

Place frozen succotash in 10 x 6 x 2-inch baking dish. Sprinkle with
salt and chopped onion; dot with butter. Cover. Bake in Gas oven at 350
degrees for 1 hour. Makes 6 servings.


                             FRUIT COMPOTE

  1 1-lb. pkg. dried prunes
  1 C. dried apricots
  1 C. dried peaches
  2 C. water
  ½ C. sugar
  3 or 4 slices orange

Rinse fruit in warm water. Drain. Place in a 2-qt. baking dish. Add
water, sugar and sliced orange. Cover. Bake in Gas oven at 350 degrees
for one hour. Makes 8 servings.




                              OVEN MEAL 2


  Herb Crisp Chicken
  Carrots Piquant
  Date Nut Pudding
  Temperature: 350 degrees
  Time: 1 hour

(Complete the meal with a Mixed Green Salad, bread and beverage.)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                           HERB CRISP CHICKEN

  4 chicken legs with thighs connected
  2 chicken breasts, halved
  ½ C. evaporated milk
  1 C. corn flake crumbs
  4 Tbsp. chopped parsley
  2 tsp. paprika
  2 tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper

Dip pieces of chicken in milk; roll in mixture of crumbs, parsley,
paprika, salt and pepper. Place chicken pieces, skin-side up, in shallow
baking pan lined with aluminum foil; do not crowd. Bake in Gas oven at
350 degrees for 1 hour.


                            CARROTS PIQUANT

  1½ to 2 lb. carrots
  ¼ C. butter or margarine, melted
  2 Tbsp. brown sugar, packed
  2 drops Tabasco sauce
  ½ tsp. salt
  Dash pepper
  1 Tbsp. prepared mustard

Scrape carrots; cut into ¼-inch rings. Place carrots in buttered 10 x 6
x 2-inch baking dish. Combine melted butter, brown sugar, Tabasco sauce,
salt and pepper; pour over carrots. Cover with lid or aluminum foil.
Bake in Gas oven at 350 degrees for 1 hour. Just before serving, stir in
prepared mustard. Makes 6 to 8 servings.


                            DATE NUT PUDDING

  3 eggs, beaten
  1 C. sugar
  ¼ C. all-purpose flour
  1 tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 C. chopped dates
  1 C. English walnut pieces

Beat eggs with sugar until light. Add sifted dry ingredients and mix
well. Stir in dates and nuts. Turn mixture into a greased 10 x 6 x
2-inch baking dish. Set this dish into a larger pan with ½ inch of
water. Bake in Gas oven at 350 degrees for 1 hour. Makes 6 to 8
servings.




                              OVEN MEAL 3


  Italian Meat Loaf
  Butter Baked Carrots
  Green Beans With Bacon Chips
  Temperature: 375 degrees
  Time: 50 minutes

(Complete the meal with bread, beverage and ice cream.)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                           ITALIAN MEAT LOAF

  2 slices rye bread
  2 slices white bread
  ½ C. water
  1 lb. ground beef
  1 medium onion, chopped
  1 Tbsp. chopped parsley
  3 Tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese
  1 egg
  1 tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. black pepper
  2 Tbsp. butter or margarine
  1 8-oz. can (1 C.) tomato sauce
  1 tsp. oregano

Break bread into small pieces and soak in water. Combine beef with
moistened bread, onion, parsley, cheese, egg, salt and pepper. Mix well.
Place in 8¾ x 5 x 2½-inch greased loaf pan. Dot with butter. Bake in Gas
oven at 375 degrees for 30 minutes. Pour tomato sauce over meat and
sprinkle with oregano. Bake 20 minutes longer. Serve hot or cold. Makes
8 servings.


                          BUTTER BAKED CARROTS

  1½ to 2 lb. carrots
  ½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. pepper
  2 Tbsp. butter or margarine

Scrape carrots; cut into ¼-inch rings. Place carrots in buttered 10 x 6
x 2-inch baking dish. Sprinkle with combined salt and pepper; dot with
butter. Cover with lid or aluminum foil. Bake in Gas oven at 375 degrees
for 50 minutes. Makes 6 to 8 servings.


                      GREEN BEANS WITH BACON CHIPS

  2 No. 303 cans (3½ C.) cut green beans
  4 bacon slices
  ½ tsp. salt
  Dash pepper

Drain green beans. Brown bacon. Remove bacon from skillet; crumble.
Retain only 2 tablespoons of bacon fat in skillet. Return bacon to
skillet. Add green beans, salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly. Place mixture
in 1-qt. casserole; cover. Bake in Gas oven at 375 degrees for 50
minutes. Makes 6 to 8 servings.




                              OVEN MEAL 4


  Pork Chops With Basil
  Yummy Yams OR Baked Yams
  Pecan Pie
  Temperature: 350 degrees
  Time: 1 hour

(Complete the meal with a Lettuce and Tomato Salad, bread and beverage.)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                         PORK CHOPS WITH BASIL

  ½ C. all-purpose flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 tsp. garlic salt
  8 loin pork chops, trimmed
  1 Tbsp. olive oil
  ½ tsp. dried basil
  ½ C. apricot nectar

Combine flour, salt, and garlic salt in a paper bag, add the chops and
toss lightly until they are thoroughly coated. Heat oil in skillet on
thermostatic top burner at 325 degrees; add pork chops and brown.
Arrange the chops in a shallow ungreased baking dish without letting
them overlap. Sprinkle with basil. Pour apricot nectar around chops.
Cover the dish closely with aluminum foil. Bake in Gas oven at 350
degrees for 1 hour. Makes 8 servings.


                               YUMMY YAMS

  3 9½-oz. cans baby yams
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 lemon
  1 tart apple, unpeeled
  ¼ C. honey
  ½ C. brown sugar, packed
  1 Tbsp. butter or margarine

Drain yams; sprinkle with salt. Cut lemon in very thin crosswise slices.
Quarter and core apple; slice into ¼-inch slices. Arrange in two rows
lengthwise in 10 x 6 x 2-inch baking dish alternating yams, lemon and
apple slices. Place skin side of apple slice up. Combine honey and brown
sugar; mix well. Spoon over yam mixture. Dot with butter. Bake in Gas
oven at 350 degrees for 1 hour. Makes 8 servings.


                               PECAN PIE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  ½ C. butter or margarine
  ½ C. sugar
  1 C. dark corn sirup
  3 eggs, slightly beaten
  1 tsp. vanilla extract
  1½ C. pecans, broken
  1 unbaked 9-inch pie shell

Cream butter; add sugar slowly, creaming until fluffy. Slowly stir in
corn sirup, eggs, vanilla and pecans. Pour into pie shell and bake in
Gas oven at 350 degrees for 1 hour. Cool. Serve with whipped cream, if
desired.




                              OVEN MEAL 5


  Baked Salmon Loaf
  Savory Rice
  Buttered Asparagus
  Temperature: 350 degrees
  Time: 1 hour

(Complete the meal with a bread, beverage and fruit dessert.)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                           BAKED SALMON LOAF

  1 1-lb. can red salmon
  2 eggs, beaten
  3 slices bread, cubed
  1 tsp. salt
  ¼ C. butter or margarine, melted
  1½ C. warm milk

Drain salmon, remove skin and bones; flake. Combine all ingredients. Mix
thoroughly. Place in greased 9 x 5 x 3-inch loaf pan. Bake in Gas oven
at 350 degrees for 1 hour. Makes 6 servings.


                              SAVORY RICE

  ⅓ C. butter or margarine
  2 medium onions, finely chopped
  1 clove garlic, minced
  1 C. long grain rice, uncooked
  1 14-oz. can chicken broth
  1 tsp. marjoram
  ½ tsp. parsley flakes
  ½ tsp. thyme
  ¼ tsp. salt

Melt butter in 2-qt. saucepan on thermostatic top burner at medium flame
and 300 degrees. Add onions, garlic and rice. Cook until lightly
browned, stirring constantly. Add chicken broth and seasonings and bring
to a boil. Pour into 2-qt. casserole, cover and bake in Gas oven at 350
degrees for 1 hour. Stir before serving. Makes 6 servings.


                           BUTTERED ASPARAGUS

  2 10-02. pkg. frozen asparagus
  3 Tbsp. butter or margarine, melted
  1 tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  2 Tbsp. minced green onion

Thaw asparagus just enough to separate. Place in greased 1½-qt.
casserole. Add seasonings and onion to melted butter and pour over
asparagus. Cover and bake in Gas oven at 350 degrees for 1 hour. Makes 6
servings.




              SECRETS TO BETTER BAKING{decorative drawing}


               BISCUITS ARE DARK ON BOTTOM, LIGHT ON TOP

  Pan dark or heavy (use shiny cooky sheet)
  Pan too deep or too large

BISCUITS ARE PALE

  Temperature too low
  Too much flour
  Pan too deep (invert pan or use cooky sheet)

BREAD BURNING ON BOTTOM

  Oven too full; shuts off proper circulation of heat
  Wrong type of pans used. Granite or heavy black pans will cause this.
  Pans placed too close to oven bottom

BREAD BURNING ON EDGES

  Pans placed too close together
  Too much dough in pan

CAKE IS UNDERSIZED

  Too little leavening
  Batter overbeaten
  Pan too large
  Temperature too high
  Ingredients not at room temperature

CAKE IS HIGH IN MIDDLE

  Too much flour
  Temperature too high

CAKE HAS SOGGY OR RUBBERY LAYER

  Batter undermixed
  Too little leavening
  Too much liquid
  Temperature too low
  Egg yolks underbeaten

CAKE FALLS

  Too much shortening, liquid or sugar
  Too much leavening
  Insufficient or too slow baking
  Pan too small

CAKE HAS TUNNELS

  Not enough shortening
  Overmixing after adding flour
  All-purpose flour used

CAKE IS UNEVEN

  Pans not staggered in oven
  Batter uneven in pan
  Warped pans
  Range not level
  Pans touching sides of oven or each other

SPONGE CAKE FALLS OUT OF PAN

  Pan greased
  Too much sugar
  Insufficient baking

CAKE BURNS ON SIDES

  Oven too full
  Oven too hot
  Pans too close to sides of oven

CAKE CRACKS ON TOP

  Oven too hot
  Too thick batter (If cake flour not used, decrease quantity about ¼ to
              ½ C. or increase liquid ¼ C.)

COOKIES AND BISCUITS TOO BROWN ON TOP

  Cookie sheet set too high in oven
  Uneven heat distribution in oven. See that vent is unobstructed

COOKIES TOO DARK ON BOTTOM

  Cookie sheet set on too low a rack in oven
  Cookie sheet too wide or too long for oven
  Uneven distribution of heat in oven

MUFFINS HAVE TUNNELS AND SHARP PEAKS

Overmixing

                           PIE SHELL SHRINKS

  Pastry stretched in pan
  Too much water
  Pastry not pricked enough

PIE HAS SOAKED CRUST

  Temperature too low at start of baking
  Filling too juicy
  A glass pan or old dull or dark pan will give a browner, crisper
              undercrust
  Avoid shiny tin or glossy aluminum pans for pies
  Do not reduce temperature 25 degrees for pie when using oven glass, as
              you do when baking a cake
  Chill unbaked crust before adding filling for custard or pumpkin pies

PIE BURNS AROUND EDGE OF CRUST

  Temperature too high
  Pans touching each other or oven wall
  Edge of crust too thin
  Granite or black metal pan may cause scorching

PIE HAS PALE TOP

  Oven not hot enough
  Oven too full cutting off circulation of air
  Brush top with milk or cream

PIE NOT BROWN ENOUGH ON BOTTOM

  Shiny tin or aluminum pan may cause this problem
  Filling too thin—soaking bottom pastry
  Temperature too low




                      BROILER{decorative drawing}


Broiling is a fast method of cooking. It is smokeless because the
broiler flame literally consumes any smoke formed. It is cool because it
is done with the oven and broiler compartment doors closed.

There are no set rules for broiler cooking time because foods vary,
personal preferences differ and broiler burners vary in speed and
performance characteristics according to type.

                         GENERAL BROILING TIPS

{decorative drawing}

Always broil with full flame unless otherwise specified in recipe. If
recipe requires low flame, preheat on full flame first; then lower flame
to about 325 degrees to broil food. When preheating, remove the broiler
pan from the broiler compartment. Preheat broiler 5 to 10 minutes. This
speeds up broiling and gives browner and juicier meats. If broiler is
not preheated, allow a few extra minutes on the broiling time.

Do not use aluminum foil on the broiler insert, for it will block the
insert openings and prevent drainage of fat and drippings.

Allowances must be made for broiling large quantities of meat at one
time by lowering broiler pan position.

Meat for broiling should be tender, but need not be expensive.
Hamburgers, weiners, etc. are tasty when broiled.

Veal and fresh pork should not be broiled. Veal is too lean. Pork
requires long, slow cooking to be eaten safely.

Always turn meat with tongs, as piercing it with a fork will cause
unnecessary loss of meat juices.

Allow meat to brown well on the first side before turning it.

When turning meat, place on its original spot to cover the greasy area
and prevent unnecessary charring on the pan insert.

Although it is possible to broil frozen meat, a better product is
obtained by thawing before broiling. However, if frozen, increase
distance from the burner and allow more time than the chart indicates.

In a Gas range that has a broiler below the oven, it is possible to bake
and broil at the same time. Ham, fish, chicken, sandwiches, cold cuts
and fruit are just a few of the foods than can be broiled using a low
flame. Broiling time will be lengthened by this method. Meat will have a
less crusty surface but will be tender and juicy.


INFRARED BROILING GUIDE

Remove broiler pan before preheating. Use high flame for preheating and
cooking. Preheat 5 minutes.

  FOOD            DONENESS      DESCRIPTION       INCHES      MINUTES
                                               BETWEEN TOP    BROILING
                                               OF FOOD AND      TIME
                                                  FLAME     TURNING ONCE
  MEAT

    Bacon        Crisp       Regular sliced         5            5
    Ham                      ½ inch slice           6            10
    Hamburger    Medium      ½ inch                 6            8
                 Well-done   ½ inch                 6            10
    Hot Dogs                 Scored diagonally      8            3
    Lamb Chops   Medium      1 inch                 5            10
                 Well-done   1 inch                 6            16
    Liver        Well-done   ¼ inch                 5            7
    Steak, cube  Medium      ¼ inch                 3            4
    Steak        Rare        1 inch                 4            8
                 Well-done   1 inch                 4            10
                 Rare        1½ inches              5          12-14
                 Well-done   1½ inches              5            18
                 Rare        2 inches               6            25
                 Well-done   2 inches               6            30

  FISH

    Fillets                  ½ inch                 7            10
                             1 inch                 9            12
    Lobster                  3 ounces               6            10
                             7 ounces               9            20
    Shrimp                   Medium size            5            5

  POULTRY

    Chicken                  Halves or Breast       9            20


REHEATING FOOD IN THE INFRARED BROILER

Food that has been cooked, reheats exceptionally well in the infrared
broiler. Preheat as usual. Use High flame. Turning is optional.

                           BEFORE REHEATING:

Food should be at room temperature, if possible. Brush fruits and
vegetables with butter.

                           DISTANCE AND TIME:

Varies with thickness and quantity of food. Hamburger, chops, chicken
and seafood reheat successfully at the same distance and time required
when originally cooked.

Roasted meat, sliced ¼-inch thick, reheats successfully 3 inches from
the flame in 2 to 3 minutes. Turning is not necessary.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


CONVENTIONAL BROILING GUIDE

 Food                  Thickness     Inches between    Broiling Time
                                       Top of Food     Turning Once
                                        and Flame        (minutes)

 Bacon              Thin Slices            3-5               5
                                                       (no turning)
 Meat Patties       1 in. patties          2-3
   Medium                                                  8-12
   Well-done                                               12-20
 Liver              ½ to ¾ in.              3              6-10
 Lobster                                   4-5             20-25
 Fruit                                     3-4             5-10
   (Grapefruit,                                        (no turning)
   tomato or
   peach halves)




                            BROILER RECIPES


                             BROILED STEAKS

Steak is probably the most popular meat in America and certainly there
is nothing more hearty or satisfying than a good steak, thick and juicy,
and sizzling hot right from the broiler.

Figure ¾ to 1 pound of steak per person. It should be at least 1-inch
thick. Trim away excess fat and slash remaining edge of fat to prevent
curling.

To test a thick steak for doneness, make a small cut with a sharp knife
near the bone.

When steak is done as desired, season with salt and pepper, spread with
softened butter and serve on a hot platter.

The distance from the flame depends upon thickness of the meat and
doneness preferred—the rarer the steak, the nearer to the flame. Broil
until nicely browned; turn and finish cooking the second side.

PREHEAT BROILER COMPARTMENT 5 TO 10 MINUTES FLAME-HIGH

RARE: Place so top of meat is 1½ to 2 inches from flame. Broil 8 to 10
minutes, turning once.

MEDIUM: Place so top of meat is 2 to 3 inches from flame. Broil 12 to 18
minutes, turning once.

WELL-DONE: Place so top of meat is 3 to 5 inches from flame. Broil 20 to
25 minutes, turning once.


                            BROILED CHICKEN

{decorative drawing}

Preheat broiler compartment 5 to 10 minutes. Select 1½ to 2-lb. chicken
for broiling. Split in half lengthwise. Break the wing, hip and leg
joints to keep chicken flat. Season with salt and pepper. Arrange
chicken skin side down on cold broiler pan. Brush with melted butter or
margarine, if desired. Broil on the first side until brown, about 15
minutes; turn skin side up and broil until done. Total broiling time
varies from 35 to 50 minutes. One chicken makes 2 to 3 servings.

  Conventional Broiler:
      DISTANCE—5 TO 8 INCHES
      FLAME—HIGH

  Infrared Broiler:
      DISTANCE—8 TO 9 INCHES
      FLAME—HIGH


                              BROILED FISH

{decorative drawing}

Preheat broiler compartment 5 to 10 minutes. Arrange fish fillets or
steaks on cold broiler pan insert. Place fillets skin side down. Dot
with butter or margarine and sprinkle with salt and paprika. Broil
without turning until golden brown and fish flakes easily when tested
with a fork, 10 to 13 minutes.

1½ lb. fish makes 4 to 6 servings.

  Conventional Broiler:
      DISTANCE—4 INCHES
      FLAME—HIGH

  Infrared Broiler:
      DISTANCE—9 INCHES
      FLAME—HIGH


                              BROILED HAM

Preheat broiler compartment 5 to 10 minutes. Have ham steak cut ¾ to
1-inch thick. Slash edges of fat to prevent curling. Place ham on cold
broiler pan insert. Broil 10 to 20 minutes, depending on thickness of
ham, turning once.

  Conventional Broiler:
      DISTANCE—3 TO 5 INCHES
      FLAME—HIGH

  Infrared Broiler:
      DISTANCE—5 INCHES
      FLAME—HIGH


                           STEAK CHAMPIGNONS

  4 sirloin strip steaks, 1-inch thick
  1 Tbsp. chopped green onion
  1 4-oz. can sliced mushrooms
  2 Tbsp. butter or margarine
  1 Tbsp. chopped parsley
  1 Tbsp. lemon juice
  Salt
  Pepper
  Butter or margarine for garnish

Have butcher cut pocket in steaks. Cook onion and mushrooms in 2
tablespoons butter in skillet on thermostatic top burner at 212 degrees
for 5 minutes. Add parsley, lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste.
Lightly season pockets with additional salt and pepper; fill with 2
tablespoons mushroom mixture. Secure with a wooden tooth pick. Place in
preheated Gas broiler about 3 inches from high flame. Broil 5 minutes or
until nicely browned; turn and broil 2 to 3 minutes longer. Garnish with
softened butter and serve immediately. Makes 4 servings.


                              REUBEN GRILL

  2½-oz. corned beef, chopped
  2-oz. process Swiss cheese, grated
  ¾ C. chopped drained sauerkraut, packed (reserve juice)
  ¼ C. sauerkraut juice
  ¼ C. mayonnaise
  Salt
  Pepper
  8 slices rye bread
  2 Tbsp. butter or margarine, melted

Combine first 7 ingredients, mix well. Brush bread with butter on one
side only. Spread the buttered side of each slice of bread evenly with
¼-inch layer of corned beef mixture. Place in preheated Gas broiler
about 7 to 9 inches from high flame. Broil about 5 minutes. Press 2
halves together. Serve immediately. Makes 4 sandwiches.


                          SIX ’N ONE HAMBURGER

  1 lb. ground beef
  ½ C. canned whole tomatoes, chopped and well drained
  ¾ C. soft bread crumbs
  1 tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  2 Tbsp. chopped onion
  2 tsp. chopped fresh parsley
  ½ C. shredded Cheddar cheese

Place ground beef in medium size mixing bowl. In small bowl combine
tomatoes, bread crumbs, salt, pepper, onion and parsley. Add combined
ingredients to beef and toss lightly with a fork. Form mixture into a
large patty, 6 × 6 × 1 inches in the center of a 12-inch square of
aluminum foil. Fold exposed 3-inch edge of foil underneath to fit size
of meat patty. Place in preheated Gas broiler about 3 inches from high
flame. Broil about 6 minutes or until nicely browned; turn meat with
pancake turner and remove foil. Broil about 6 minutes on second side.
Remove meat from broiler; top with cheese. Cut into squares. Makes 6
servings.


                     STRAWBERRY POUND CAKE DELIGHT

  1 12-oz. frozen pound cake, thawed
  1 C. commercial sour cream
  ¼ C. brown sugar, packed
  1 pt. fresh strawberries

Slice cake into four ½-inch lengthwise layers; lay cake layers in bottom
of broiler pan. Spread sour cream evenly over top of each layer;
sprinkle with brown sugar. Using a spatula, swirl top of the mixture to
slightly blend the cream and sugar. Place in preheated Gas broiler about
7 to 9 inches from high flame. Broil 6 to 7 minutes. Make two separate
cakes, placing one layer on top of another, keeping cream and sugar side
up. Cut each cake crosswise into 3 servings. Using 1 pint of berries,
garnish the top of each serving. Pour strawberry glaze over berries on
cake. Serve immediately. Makes 6 servings.


                            STRAWBERRY GLAZE

  1 pt. fresh strawberries
  1 C. sugar
  1½ Tbsp. cornstarch
  Dash salt

Wash, drain and hull strawberries; crush. If necessary add enough water
to make 1½ cups. Place strawberries and juice in saucepan on
thermostatic top burner at medium flame and 212 degrees; gradually stir
in mixture of sugar, cornstarch, and salt. Bring to boiling, boil 1
minute, stirring constantly. Cool. Pour over berries on cake. Makes 6
servings.

  NOTE: This glaze should be made in advance and cooled before broiling
  the cake.




                     ROTISSERIE{decorative drawing}


                            ROTISSERIE TIPS

Foods cooked on the rotisserie require little attention because they
rotate slowly, basting themselves to achieve flavor and appearance.

It is best to bring meat to room temperature before cooking.

Before preheating, check to see that food on rotisserie spit is centered
under the burner and rotating evenly. Reposition food if necessary.

For most accurate test of doneness, use a meat thermometer. It will
indicate internal temperature which is more accurate than estimating
time. Insert carefully so thermometer does not touch fat, bone or
rotisserie spit, or hit any part of compartment when meat is rotating.

Bones and fat are both good conductors of heat, so roasts which have
larger amounts will cook more quickly than lean boneless pieces.

Smaller pieces of meat require a longer cooking time per pound than
large pieces of meat.

Season the cavity of poultry before cooking. Stuff if desired. Tie wings
and legs close to body before securing firmly on rotisserie spit. Season
skin. Brushing with butter is not necessary.

When using High flame, baste only during the last 10 minutes of cooking.
When a longer basting period is desired, it is best to use Low flame.

To make a roast carve more easily, allow the meat to “set” after
cooking. Rare roasts should be covered loosely and allowed to stand in a
Gas oven at 170 degrees for 20 to 30 minutes before carving. The medium
and well-done roasts should be allowed about half this much time.


                  CONVENTIONAL BURNER ROTISSERIE GUIDE

Consult manufacturer’s instruction booklet for specific information. The
following is intended only as a guide.

The rotisserie may be located in the oven, broiler or on top of the
range. FOR ROTISSERIE LOCATED IN OVEN, FOLLOW TIME AND TEMPERATURE GIVEN
IN OVEN MEAT ROASTING GUIDE.

In built-in ranges with rotisserie located in broiler compartment under
oven, set oven thermostat at 350 degrees for low flame; at “broil” for
high flame. Keep door closed as for broiling.

Preheat 10 minutes.

 FOOD                      WEIGHT FLAME SETTING FOR   MINUTES PER POUND
                           POUNDS     ROTISSERIE
 BEEF

   Rolled Rib                4-6  In Broiler—Low      Rare       26-30
                                                      Medium     35-40
                                                      Well-done  40-45
   Tenderloin               2½-3  In Broiler—medium   Rare       10-15
                                                      Medium     15-20
                                                      Well-done  22-28

 LAMB

   Rolled Leg                4-5  In Broiler—low      ...        40-45

 PORK

   Canadian Bacon            3-4  In Broiler—low      ...        20-25
   Ham-cured                 3-4  In Broiler—low      ...        35-40
   Ham-precooked              4   In Broiler—low      ...        20
   Loin, fresh (boned and    3-5  In Broiler—low      ...        45-55
   rolled)
   use meat thermometer
   to make sure that pork
   roasts are well-done.

 FOOD                      WEIGHT FLAME SETTING FOR     COOKING TIME
                           POUNDS     ROTISSERIE

   Spareribs                      In Broiler—low      1½-2       hours
   Weiners                        In Broiler—medium   12-15      min.

 POULTRY

   Chicken (halved)          2-3  In Broiler—low      1-1¼       hours
   Chicken (whole)           2-3  In Broiler—medium   1¼-1½      hours
   Cornish Hen               ¾-1  In Broiler—low      1½-2       hours
   Duckling                  4-5  In Broiler—low      2½-3       hours


                    INFRARED BURNER ROTISSERIE GUIDE

Use High flame for preheating and cooking

Preheat 5 minutes

  FOOD                        WEIGHT    DONENESS   MINUTES    INTERNAL
                              POUNDS              PER POUND TEMPERATURE
  BEEF

    Rolled Rib                 4-6      Rare          20       140°F.
                                        Medium        22       160°F.
                                        Well-Done     25       170°F.
    Rib Eye Roast              3-4      Rare          20       140°F.
                                        Medium        22       160°F.
                                        Well-Done     25       170°F.

  LAMB

    Rolled Leg                 3-4      Medium        25       175°F.

  PORK

    Canadian Bacon             2-3      Well-Done     20       170°F.
    Ham—Ready-to-Eat           5-6      Well-Done     20       160°F.
    Loin—Bone In               4-5      Well-Done     15       170°F.

  POULTRY

    Broiler-fryer              2-3      Well-Done     20       190°F.
    Turkey (not stuffed)       6-8      Well-Done     15       190°F.




             COOKING TERMS AND METHODS{decorative drawing}


Note: See pages 12 through 18 to use thermostatic top burner for these
      methods.

BOIL

To cook in a liquid at a temperature of 212 degrees. Visually, bubbles
should rise continually. Method: cover the pan and bring the contents to
a boil over a high flame. Then turn to the simmer flame (first click on
many burners) and continue boiling, covered until done.

                                 BRAISE

To cook meat or poultry by searing in fat, then simmering in a covered
pan in small amount of moisture. Method: generally, meats are seasoned
and rolled in flour and browned in hot fat. Then add a small amount of
liquid and cover the pan. Turn burner valve knob to simmer flame, so
food simmers, not boils, until done.

                              DEEP FAT FRY

To cook in fat deep enough to completely cover the food being cooked. A
saucepan or skillet may be used. Method: use a high flame to bring the
fat to frying temperature (usually 375 degrees), then lower the flame
until it just maintains the desired fat temperature.

                               HIGH BOIL

This term is used to describe a vigorous, rolling boil which cannot be
stirred down. It cooks no faster than a gentle boil but is needed for
cooking foods like macaroni or jellies and jams. Method: cover the pan
and use a high flame to bring the contents to a boil quickly. Then
uncover the pan and turn to a medium flame or enough heat to maintain a
high boil. The food is cooked uncovered in this case to prevent
boil-overs and/or to permit evaporation.

                                  MELT

To liquify a solid food by heat. Method: heat over “keep warm” flame
until liquified. Covering the pan will speed melting.

                               PAN BROIL

To cook uncovered on a hot surface, usually in a skillet, pouring off
fat as it accumulates. Method: heat skillet on “high”. Do not add fat or
water and do not cover. Turn to “simmer” and brown meat slowly on both
sides, pouring off fat as it accumulates.

                            SAUTÉ OR PAN FRY

To cook uncovered in a hot skillet in a small amount of fat. Method:
heat just enough fat or butter to keep the meat from sticking (one to
four tablespoons) in a skillet over a low to medium flame, depending on
the utensil material. Add the food to the hot fat and cook, turning
occasionally, until brown as desired.

                                 SIMMER

To cook in liquid, usually water, at a temperature below the boiling
point. Small bubbles are formed and rise slowly, but the liquid is
practically motionless. Method: cover the pan and bring the food to the
boiling point over a high flame. Then turn to the “simmer” flame.

                                  STEW

To cook foods slowly in a covered pan in enough water to cover the food.
Method: this is the same as braising except that more liquid is used.
The food should simmer, not boil.




                        MEASURING THE RIGHT WAY
      ALWAYS MEASURE ACCURATELY WITH STANDARD MEASURING EQUIPMENT


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

FLOUR

1. Always sift cake and all-purpose flour before measuring. Sift
pre-sifted flour unless recipe specifically says otherwise. Do not sift
rye, graham or whole wheat flour. Instantized flour cannot be sifted.

2. Sift onto waxed paper. Spoon lightly into dry measuring cup, being
careful not to pack or shake it. Level with straight-edged spatula,
without packing down.

                                LIQUIDS

1. Always set liquid measuring cup on level surface and fill to desired
mark.

2. If thick like molasses or sirup, level off with spatula.

                               SHORTENING

Use graduated measuring cups. Have shortening at room temperature. Pack
firmly into measuring cup. Level off with straight-edged spatula.

                              BROWN SUGAR

Use graduated measuring cup. Pack down in cup with back of spoon, just
enough to hold together when turned out.

                          BUTTER AND MARGARINE

One stick (¼ lb.) equals ½ cup. To measure ¼ cup, cut stick in half. 1
Tbsp. equals ⅛ of a stick. Do not substitute whipped margarine or butter
unless recipe specifically calls for it.

                              DRIED FRUITS

Pack raisins, dates, figs, etc. lightly into measuring cup. Press gently
to level off top.

                            NUTS AND COCONUT

Pack lightly into cup and level off.

                           SOFT BREAD CRUMBS

Pack lightly into measuring cup. Do not press down hard. Level off.

                         FINE DRY BREAD CRUMBS

Spoon lightly into measuring cup and level off. Don’t shake cup.

                       SHREDDED OR GRATED CHEESE

Pack lightly into measuring cup and level off.




              COMMON CAN AND JAR SIZES{decorative drawing}


       CAN SIZES
      Size of Cans              Weight                    Cups Per Can

  8 oz. can             8 oz.                    1 C.
  Picnic can (No. 1)    10½ oz.                  1¼ C.
  12 oz. can            12 oz.                   1½ C.
  No. 300 can           14 to 16 oz.             1¾ C.
  No. 303 can           16 to 17 oz.             2 C.
  No. 2 can             1 lb., 4 oz. or          2½ C.
                        1 pt., 2 fl. oz.
  No. 2½ can            1 lb., 13 oz.            3½ C.
  No. 3 can             3 lb., 3 oz. or          5¾ C.
                        1 qt., 14 fl. oz.
  No. 10 can            6½ to 7 lb., 5 oz.       12 to 13 C. or 3¼ qt.




                        SUBSTITUTING INGREDIENTS


   Ingredients        Quantity                  Substitute(s)

 BAKING POWDER   1 teaspoon          1½ teaspoons phosphate or tartrate
                 double-acting       baking powder
                                     ¼ teaspoon baking soda plus ½ cup
                                     buttermilk or sour milk
                                     ¼ teaspoon baking soda plus ⅝
                                     teaspoon cream of tartar
 BUTTER          1 cup               1 cup margarine
                                     ⅞ to 1 cup hydrogenated fat plus ½
                                     teaspoon salt
                                     ⅞ cup lard plus ½ teaspoon salt
 CHOCOLATE       1 square            3 tablespoons cocoa plus 1
                 unsweetened         tablespoon shortening
 CORNSTARCH      1 tablespoon        2 tablespoons flour (approx.) or 4
 (for                                teaspoons quick-cooking tapioca
 thickening)
 CORN SIRUP      1 cup               1 cup sugar plus ¼ cup liquid (as
                                     replacement for ½ of sugar in
                                     recipe)
 CREAM           1 cup coffee cream  3 tablespoons butter plus ⅞ cup
                 (20% milk fat)      milk
                 1 cup heavy cream   ⅓ cup butter plus ¾ cup milk
                 (40% milk fat)
 EGGS            1 whole egg         2 egg yolks
 FLOUR (for      1 tablespoon        ½ tablespoon cornstarch
 thickening)                         2 teaspoons quick-cooking tapioca
 FLOUR (sifted)  1 cup all-purpose   1 cup plus 2 tablespoons cake flour
                 1 cup cake flour    ⅞ cup all-purpose flour
 HERBS           1 tablespoon fresh  1 teaspoon dried
 HONEY           1 cup               1 to 1¼ cups sugar plus ¼ cup
                                     liquid
 MILK            1 cup fresh milk    1 cup reconstituted non-fat dry
                                     milk plus 2 teaspoons butter
                 1 cup whole milk    ½ cup evaporated milk plus ½ cup
                                     water
                 1 cup sour milk     1 tablespoon lemon juice or
                                     vinegar plus sweet milk to make 1
                                     cup
                                     1¾ teaspoons cream of tartar plus
                                     1 cup sweet milk
 YEAST           1 cake compressed   1 package or 2 teaspoons active
                                     dry yeast

    [Illustration: COLUMBIA GAS SYSTEM]

HSR-67




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos, including listed errata.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of To Your Kitchen From Mine, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO YOUR KITCHEN FROM MINE ***

***** This file should be named 63457-0.txt or 63457-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/4/5/63457/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

